---
title: Fosshost Enters Partnership with freenode
date: 2021-06-01
summary: Fosshost and Freenode will partner to host and operate IRC
author: corwin
thumbnail: freenode.webp
---

# We have now fully withdrawn from the Freenode Partnership.  

Fosshost C.I.C, a UK non-profit provider of cloud computing services
for FOSS, enters into a long term partnership with Freenode Limited
('freenode').

Work has begun, and the two organizations have directed staff toward
constructing long-term plans for freenode on the Fosshost network.  In
the immediate, Fosshost staff will begin assisting the volunteer team
at freenode and enter long term planning and conversations about
immediate needs, including with infrastructure and hosting IRC nodes,
web teams, and the IRC network's platform and operations.

In the near term, the two projects will partner to launch co/cross
branded public and tenant-facing SaaS offerings, available BYOD or
levering the combined network for DNS.

As leadership teams from both organizations met to discuss approaches
to ensure the long-term sustainability and vitality of freenode, the
IRC network, Thomas Markey (Fosshost Founder, Founder and CEO) and
Andrew Lee (Freenode Limited, Owner and President) put their
conversation in light of the recent controversy surrounding freenode.

Andrew commented, saying, "Today is a momentous day in the history of
freenode, the home of FOSS. We have identified and are working with a
proven provider of FOSS services with a compelling vision for long
term access to FOSS and FOSS communities. From this day forward, we
focus on the future, making sure FOSS projects and the community have
the resources they need and prefer to communicate to create tools that
will long outlive these dramas. For those who choose to make freenode
their home, we're here for you."

Thomas added, "We are both committed to making freenode a great IRC
community. But FOSS is about empowering choice. That's our mission and
what we're focused on Today."

For any media enquiries, please email: PR@fosshost.org
